[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Kaedrich Olsen is with
us, a paranormal arts
trainer who helps people learn
how to coexist with the spirit
world.
He helps people understand
supernatural events around them
and what it means to live
in a paranormal reality.
Kaedrich, welcome back
to "Beyond Belief."
>>KAEDRICH OLSEN:
Thank you, George.
I'm glad to be here again.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>OLSEN: Things have been
busy, really good-- lots
of good stuff going
on in the spirit
world and the physical world.
>>NOORY: How did you first get
involved in the spirit world?
>>OLSEN: I was
literally born into it.
I grew up in a house
that was very haunted.
Ghosts were all
around all the time.
They'd be turning the channel
on the TV, turning on the radio,
flickering the lights.
I went to a spiritualist church,
learned how to do seance,
and was taking psychic
development classes
as a young child.
>>NOORY: You have become an
expert on Hollywood films
dealing with the paranormal.
What do you like?
What do you don't
like about Hollywood?
>>OLSEN: These movies are fun.
They're a lot of fun to watch.
I kind of like horror movies.
I grew up also
watching horror movies,
trying to be scared by it.
But what I don't like is
they tell us the wrong things
about the paranormal.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>OLSEN: Yeah, they get us to--
I mean, they make
great stories that
are scary stories
about the paranormal.
And, for years,
even before movies,
people have been telling
ghost stories to each other.
So it's kind of ingrained in us.
But when people have only
access to the paranormal,
and the scary movies, and
the TV shows they see,
they tend to think this
is how the paranormal is--
this is what the
supernatural is like,
so that when they have a
supernatural, paranormal-type
experience themselves, they
default to what they learned
in the movies, which is, as
we'll see, not quite accurate.
>>NOORY: Is it because--
and I'm talking about
in terms of Hollywood,
now-- it sells tickets?
>>OLSEN: That's exactly it.
Fear sells.
So if you can get people in
with a good, scary story,
they buy into it,
you get more people
going to the show going, hey,
what was so scary about that?
I want to find out.
>>NOORY: Do they
manipulate the truth?
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
They'll take a little bit
of what actually happened,
spin it, and spin
it, and spin it
and tell a tale that's really
extraordinary so that they
can get people to go
into buying into what
the show is, what the movie is.
But when you really see
what the paranormal is like,
it's kind of boring.
I have a saying that
dead people are boring.
And when people have an
actual paranormal experience,
it's so subtle, so quiet.
They're like, was that
really what it was?
You're not going to get
people to buy into a movie
when you have the real
paranormal stuff in it.
>>NOORY: It's too scientific.
>>OLSEN: Eh, too emotional,
believe it or not.
>>NOORY: What would be
some of the Hollywood films
that you would say violate that?
>>OLSEN: Just about all of them.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>OLSEN: There's a
few that haven't.
>>NOORY: What was the first one?
>>OLSEN: The very first one
that I would say that I saw--
I was seven years old at
my grandmother's house,
back when HBO was a dish
on the roof of the house--
back in those days.
And I was staying overnight,
and my sister really
wanted to watch "The Exorcist."
>>NOORY: The
original "Exorcist"?
>>OLSEN: The
original "Exorcist".
And, boy, did it scare
the hell out of me.
I couldn't sleep that night.
>>NOORY: The head spinning
and all that stuff.
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah, the
head spinning, the--
>>NOORY: Green guck.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, the green
pea soup coming out.
And the part that scared
me the most is she
wasn't in control
of her own body.
She wasn't in control
of her own mind.
So when I went to sleep
that night in this new room,
all by myself, pitch black,
I was there concentrating on,
what was my mind?
What were my thoughts?
And I very carefully went
to sleep stage by stage,
step by step, aware of
what my consciousness was
doing because that's how
much the movie scared me.
I wanted to be in
control of my own mind.
>>NOORY: Based on a
real story, by the way.
>>OLSEN: Yes, it is.
From the research that
I've done into it--
I want to still
use the term Roland
Doe because I know it's come
out with a real name of who
this child was,
and I'm going to--
>>NOORY: Who has
since passed on.
>>OLSEN: Has since
passed on, but I
like to protect
people's privacy,
so I'm going to stay
with Roland Doe-- it
was in 1949 started to exhibit
certain behavioral traits.
>>NOORY: Baltimore,
Maryland, originally.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
Yep, in Maryland.
Started to exhibit certain
traits-- having seizures,
having problems.
And the parents did look for
a medical solution which,
eventually the church--
>>NOORY: Which you
should do first, anyway.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And the church
still, today, will
insist that you find a
medical solution first.
But the priest
insisted, hey, no, this
is a case of possession.
We need to do our exorcisms,
which they did several of,
before the boy was
actually finally admitted
to a psychiatric
hospital for care.
>>NOORY: They took
him to St. Louis.
>>OLSEN: They did.
>>NOORY: I knew one
of the priests that
was part of "The Exorcist."
He has died, as well.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And they exorcised
the boy in the Alexian Brothers
Hospital.
This is what's interesting
about this, Kaedrich.
After the exorcism
was done, they
closed the room to that
hospital and never let anybody
go back in there.
They then sold the furniture
at auction to people.
The people who bought
the bed and the dresser
experienced haunted
things for the rest
of while they had that.
>>OLSEN: I have absolutely
no doubt of that.
>>NOORY: How about that?
>>OLSEN: Yep, absolutely.
And some of the
insiders I've known
and I've talked to that
knew a little bit more
about what was going
on is, yes, they did
do another exorcism
in the hospital.
And we're still
talking in the '50s.
We're moving into
the '49s to the '50s.
And antipsychotic
medication really
hadn't quite hit the scene yet,
hadn't really been quite there.
But when the boy,
Roland Doe, finally
did get on a good regimen of
medication, all of the problems
stopped.
>>NOORY: What does
that tell you?
>>OLSEN: That this was
a product of the mind.
And this is how
it's always been.
>>NOORY: You don't
think he was possessed?
>>OLSEN: I don't think
he was really possessed.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>OLSEN: In fact--
>>NOORY: But how does that
explain the haunted furniture?
>>OLSEN: That's
exactly how it explains
that is because we,
as human beings,
are very powerfully
creative entities.
We create all sorts
of spiritual beings.
I'm not saying that
they're not real.
I'm saying they are
real, but we create them.
We generate them
through our belief.
We generate them through our
emotions, through our thoughts.
And so if we were to get
a piece of furniture that
has a tie to "The
Exorcist," and we
believe that this was
a demonic possession,
we believe in the full
paranormal experience
that it happened, we
will be generating.
>>NOORY: So you're
saying you manifested it?
>>OLSEN: We absolutely do.
>>NOORY: Well, the little boy,
as he grew older, had a job,
had a career--
he has since passed on--
I think he was in
the space industry.
>>OLSEN: That's what
I heard, as well.
Yep.
>>NOORY: Did he ever have
any episodes that we know of?
>>OLSEN: From what I heard, no.
>>NOORY: That's intriguing.
>>OLSEN: Once they got
the medication set--
>>NOORY: And he stayed
on his medication.
>>OLSEN: --he did fine.
>>NOORY: And it probably
got better, too,
as the years went by.
>>OLSEN: Yep.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>OLSEN: And in many, many
of the cases that we see
of possession, they all have
the same kind of traits--
somebody flopping around in bed,
using cuss words, swear words.
They have a strict
aversion to any sort
of religious symbol to them.
They might even have welts and
blisters show up on their body.
And the more prevalent these
have become over the years,
they're mimicking what
we saw in "The Exorcist."
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>OLSEN: However, what
we're seeing in a lot,
a lot of these
cases of a child--
we're going to focus
on children here--
a child in bed who
is involuntarily
convulsing, that may be
spewing out offensive words
or offensive things--
>>NOORY: Vulgarity.
>>OLSEN: --this could be very
much related to something
called psychogenic
nonepileptic seizures, which is
a form of conversion disorder.
>>NOORY: Could have they
have Tourette Syndrome, too?
>>OLSEN: That could
be part of it.
And so where we get PENES--
P-E-N-E-S-- where we get
this from is it's a form
of conversion disorder.
There is some sort
of trauma going on.
There's some sort of PTSD,
chronic PTSD going on.
And this child is not able to
express their emotional state.
They're not able to express
their emotional turmoil.
And if you cannot express
your emotions externally,
the body will
express it for you.
>>NOORY: Well, then, What
is conversion disorder?
>>OLSEN: It is when you
are super stressed out,
and you have a lot of stress
going on, you will get ticks.
You will get shakes.
You will be uttering things
that you are not in control of.
It's because it is a
subconscious way for the body
to express that stress
because you're not
having a healthy outlet
for that emotion.
>>NOORY: But not
everybody possesses this?
>>OLSEN: Not everybody.
Not everybody has it.
>>NOORY: What makes one person
have it and another person not?
>>OLSEN: We don't know yet.
It's just like some people
sneeze when the sun comes out.
A lot of people don't.
Some people get ice
cream headaches.
It's the same kind of thing.
Everybody is going
to react differently
to the same stimuli.
So some people
will develop PENES.
Some people won't.
Some people have different
forms of conversion disorder.
Some people won't.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Well, William Blatty
wrote the book
on "The Exorcist," which was
turned into the movie you just
mentioned.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>NOORY: He believed--
interviewing people who knew
him years ago--
he believed the little
boy was possessed.
But you don't think so.
>>OLSEN: I don't think so.
And even Blatty said
that this was a great way
to get people to
come into the church.
>>NOORY: Oh, no doubt.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>NOORY: But the Catholic
Church, to this day,
employs well over 100 exorcists
all around the church.
And they take this
pretty darn seriously.
>>OLSEN: They
absolutely do, and they
do have very strict criteria for
what meets their possessions.
They have to have the ability
to speak in different languages.
There has to be some sort of
telekinetic phenomena going on.
There is a strict
criteria of what's met.
And, of course, you still
have to go to the doctor.
You have to have the
psychiatric counseling.
You've got to have the
review of the doctor
before the exorcist
will take effect.
But that hasn't
always been the case.
Even the case of Anneliese
Michel in Germany who went
through several exorcisms who
was determined that she did
have some sort of a psychiatric
problem going on, and she died
of severe malnutrition--
basically, abuse--
because the church insisted she
was possessed, when, no, it was
a psychiatric disorder she had.
>>NOORY: Well, what if you have
10 people, and five of them
are psychotic.
The other five are truly
possessed by demons.
Is that possible?
>>OLSEN: Not in my experience.
I've been doing this
for decades, literally.
I grew up with it.
I'm in my 50s, now.
It's not in my experience.
When there is
possession happening
by the terms possession, it
is not by a demonic entity.
Think about this.
If a demonic entity-- if we go
back to the false hierarchy,
or we go back to
the "Goetia" that
describes the big demons, the 72
demons of classical demonology,
these are gods from
the Macedonian,
from the Canaan, the
pre-Semitic religions that,
in the medieval times,
were demonized and turned
into demons.
And if an entity
is that old, it is
thousands of years old,
5,000, 6,000, 7,000 years old,
don't you think it would
have something better
to do than get into the body
of a child, flop around, cuss,
and puke?
>>NOORY: You would think.
>>OLSEN: I would think.
But what we do see in
cases of possession,
when there is a spirit
in the body that
has a little more
control over that body
and the decision-making
than maybe it should have,
it's actually not
a demonic entity.
It's actually a loved
one that's moved on that
thinks they know better.
You think about the moms that
are kind of helicopter moms
that are the know-it-all,
that are always nagging, hey,
why aren't you doing this?
Hey, why aren't you doing that?
They pass on, and
they're like, uh, I
don't like the way
you're living your life.
You need to be doing this.
You need to be doing that.
And the kid is like, I love mom.
I love the way she was there.
So there's this connection.
So it's usually a
loved one that's
a little bit overbearing,
still, in the afterlife that
needs gentle convincing
that it's time to move on.
And we call that spirit
release therapy, rather than
an exorcism.
>>NOORY: What would you say
to the 100-plus exorcist
priests today if you
were at a conference,
and they were all
there with you?
Are you going to
downplay exorcisms?
>>OLSEN: No, but I would
try to convince them
of understanding the
power of the human mind
to generate the phenomena that
appear as demonic possession--
that if we can get a
better understanding
of the human mind, if we get
a better understanding of what
the paranormal and
the spirit world
is really like without
demonizing it instantly--
which is a big problem, I
think, that's out there.
We have the demonologists that
will come into people's homes
and say, oh, this is a demon,
when it's really grandma.
When it's maybe a lost
little boy saying, hey,
who's out there?
>>NOORY: Are they
doing it for money?
>>OLSEN: Some are.
Some aren't.
>>NOORY: You've got
to be careful there.
>>OLSEN: But there's
that strong belief
that they're dealing
with demonic forces
throughout the world.
And, again, I've been
doing this for decades,
and I haven't seen
anything like that.
I have seen scary things.
I have seen some really
spooky, awful things
that are out there.
And then once we shift
the energy in the house,
once we shift the inner
beliefs of the people,
the scary stuff stops.
>>NOORY: So are you
saying you can explain
every kind of weird situation?
>>OLSEN: Oh, that would
be boring if I could.
I love going in and--
>>NOORY: So do you open the
window to the possibility
that there could be
something demonic here?
>>OLSEN: There could be.
I just haven't encountered it.
I haven't seen it.
I've talked to people
that said they have,
and when I've explored
it, looked into it,
it turned out to
be other things.
>>NOORY: What is the story
behind "The Conjuring."
>>OLSEN: Now, "The Conjuring"--
that's another one of those fun
movies that kind
of gets it wrong.
When we look at that
movie, it's about 1971.
A family, the Perron
family moves into--
>>NOORY: A real story.
>>OLSEN: It's a real
story based on real events
about the Perron family
moving into a rural house,
and, instantly, the
paranormal stuff happens.
Now, in the movie--
this is Andrea Perron's
story, so it's amazing stuff.
She does great work.
But she will even say that
the movie got it wrong.
That, yes, the real
events that they
were experiencing-- definitely,
things were happening.
>>NOORY: Things flew
across the room--
>>OLSEN: Definitely, yeah.
>>NOORY: --and
anything like that.
>>OLSEN: Definitely, some
scary stuff happened.
But there were also a lot of
really, really good things
that happened, a lot of amazing
and beautiful things that
happened in that house, as well
as some of the scary stuff.
But she said the movie, if
I'm getting her story right,
exaggerated it, really spun--
like we were talking before,
can spin some of these things.
>>NOORY: Hollywood
does that, as you said.
>>OLSEN: Exactly, because
it gets butts in chairs
and sells tickets, which
is the point of it, right?
And it's entertainment.
>>NOORY: But did "The
Conjuring" really happen?
>>OLSEN: Some of the things did.
From my understanding
of what was
going on is there are natural
portals all over this planet,
some we can create artificially.
And this house was situated in a
place where there was a portal.
There were all sorts
of beings, all sorts
of entities from
all walks of life
coming through there--
not only dead people,
but advanced beings,
lower-level beings,
multiple types of beings
coming into that house.
And some of them had
their own agendas.
Some of them didn't.
Some of them really liked
the house the way it was.
And when the family started
adjusting things in the house,
they got upset, which I've
seen happen quite a bit.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>OLSEN: But, ultimately,
it was a portal.
And what I think is
going on here is--
I've got a list of nine
rules of interacting
with the paranormal, and we'll
talk about some of these here.
But the main one is similarities
attract and perpetuate,
meaning, whatever
your mindset is,
you're going to draw
to you, and you're
going to create that around you.
So let's take a
Ouija board-- one
of your most favorite things
in the world, right, George?
>>NOORY: I hate them.
You know that.
>>OLSEN: I grew up believing
a Ouija board is nothing
more than just a piece
of wood with decorations.
>>NOORY: That's how I
started, too, until--
>>OLSEN: Until-- exactly.
But it's what you
believe that to be.
And this is one of the things
about "The Exorcist" is,
prior to "The Exorcist,"
the Ouija board
was a great, beautiful tool.
People used it all the time.
It wasn't a big deal.
>>NOORY: It was a game.
>>OLSEN: It was just a game.
But "The Exorcist," because
of Regan's encounter
with Captain Howdy
through the Ouija board,
turned the Ouija board into
some sort of a demonic tool.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>OLSEN: So now, today, when
people see a Ouija board,
they'll go, oh.
>>NOORY: They'll freak out.
>>OLSEN: They'll freak out.
But it's still just a piece
of wood with letters on it.
It's what you put into that,
what you project into it.
And so if a person is
living in a home that
has an open, active
portal on it,
and they experience
a paranormal thing,
and they go back to
their default of what
they see in the movies
and the TV shows--
oh, this is demonic activity.
This is scary.
This is spooky.
This is awful-- they're
going to be generating
fear energy in droves.
They're going to have this
expectation that it's evil.
It's awful.
It's terrible.
It's bad.
They're coming to get me.
Similarities attract
and perpetuate.
They start creating that
experience for themselves.
>>NOORY: Tell me about the
late Ed and Lorraine Warren.
>>OLSEN: Ed and
Lorraine Warren--
these are exactly what
I'm talking about.
They are demonologists.
>>NOORY: They were the best.
>>OLSEN: I really
will give them credit.
In the '70s, they brought to
light the paranormal phenomena
to the more mainstream.
A lot of people
recognized that, oh,
we don't live in just a
physical, mundane world,
that there is a spiritual
side to what's going on.
However, being demonologists,
everything they encountered
were demons.
>>NOORY: Did the Warrens
affect the spirit world?
>>OLSEN: They did.
They absolutely did.
Because they were demonologists,
and they expected everything
to be demons, they
could go into a house
where maybe it was just
a mischievous spirit.
Maybe it was-- they had
an old, nosy neighbor that
was messing with things.
But, no, it's a demon.
And because they convinced
everybody in the house that it
was a demon, because they
brought their authority--
they were very much
authority figures--
they brought their authority
into this situation, convinced
everybody it was a
demon, now, we're
generating scary,
demonic activity.
Meanwhile, there's
probably a ghost
in the house or spirit of a
person in the house going, huh?
I don't want this.
I don't need this.
>>NOORY: You mentioned
the Perron family.
One of the children who lived
in the house, Andrea Perron,
explains changes in
paranormal activity
when the Warrens showed up.
Let's look.
>>ANDREA PERRON:
Things had actually
been relatively quiet in the
house before the Warrens came.
And they showed up just
before Halloween in 1973.
So we'd already lived there
for a couple of years,
and a great many experiences
had happened at that point.
We did not know who they were
when they came to the door.
And my mother just
opened the door,
and she let them in the house.
It was cold outside.
They were obviously a
harmless, middle-aged couple
that she assumed were
lost in the woods.
And when they
identified themselves,
she had no idea who they were.
We didn't know anything
about paranormal anything.
We were just living
in a haunted house
and trying to get
used to the fact
that we were living
in a haunted house.
When the Warrens came in,
it changed everything.
It shifted the energy.
Suddenly, our family
was under scrutiny.
My father didn't trust them
any farther than he could
pick them up and throw them.
My mother thought perhaps they
were some type of an authority
having to do with paranormal
supernatural activity.
The Warrens really
stirred the pot--
for all intents and
purposes, foisted a seance
that Mrs. Warren
insisted was necessary
in order to determine
who the culprit was.
It certainly wasn't
Bathsheba that
came through and picked my
mother up and threw her 20
feet into the next room and
knocked her unconscious.
Whatever it was was so
powerful that it could have
killed her If it wanted to.
I witnessed that
event, and Mrs. Warren
said that my mother was
suffering from oppression
and that the next
step was possession,
and they wanted to know who
was causing this problem.
They brought a
medium with them who
threw open wide the
doors to the netherworld,
literally conjured the spirits
and brought every energy
that she could into that house.
She ended up unconscious on
the table in the dining room.
My mother ended up unconscious
on the floor in the parlor.
My father threw the Warrens
out and told them never to come
back again, told them to take
their entourage with them,
used some very
unsavory language--
that's the night that I
learned some of those words--
and basically expelled them.
>>NOORY: She seems to be blaming
the Warrens for these episodes.
>>OLSEN: This goes back to what
I was saying about similarities
attract and perpetuate--
that they lived with
such a powerful portal.
Their experiences
were very real.
They were definitely
encountering
supernatural entities.
And if you were to bring in
a medium and demonologists
into the room to connect with
that powerful of an energy
with the belief
and the expectation
that you're dealing with
evil, demonic forces,
that's exactly what
you're going to get.
Now, with being similarities
attract and perpetuate,
when I teach people
seance, I teach
them to set up protective
space internally,
to set protective space around
them, to move their mind
into a higher state of being.
And when they're in this
protective state doing
these kind of
seances, they could
be in a portal of
that kind of strength
and that kind of power.
But that similarity that
they're putting out there,
they're only going to attract
the higher-level beings that
have a better understanding
of what's happening,
a clear understanding.
And they will always have
a positive experience
of what's going on.
>>NOORY: Why did it
seem, though, Kaedrich,
that this house had so much
paranormal activity there?
>>OLSEN: I'm not sure
what created that portal.
I'm not sure if it may be a
combination of the minerals
in the land there,
or if that there
was some Native American
activity that created that,
or if it's just a natural
phenomena, maybe something
to do with the magnetic
fields of the Earth.
I'm not really sure.
But no doubt there
is a portal there.
>>NOORY: There was
something going on there.
>>OLSEN: Yep.
And I will recommend people
to read Andrea's book--
a series of books, literally--
"House of Darkness,
House of Light"--
where she goes into more detail
about what's in the house
and what they
experienced and she's
got great stories in there
about how, yes, it was scary.
But once they learned that
it was a paranormal place,
once they learned to be
there, it got better.
It got easier.
>>NOORY: Well, let's
listen to more of Andrea
and her stories about
energy inside this house.
>> OLSEN: Yes.
>>PERRON: I have always
described it as a portal
cleverly disguised
as a farmhouse,
and there's a reason for that
because the energy there is
so--
it's unlike any other place
that I have ever been on Earth.
I think that's fair to say.
And it was such a
swirling vortex of energy
that we never, never knew if we
were in 1974, we were in 1832,
we were in 1767, based on the
entities and the experiences
that we had.
But I do know for sure that
even though there were dark
entities--
certainly one and
possibly more--
at the farm, there
were also benevolent,
loving entities who
would watch over us.
>>NOORY: So she's
convinced there's
something going on there.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
I am, too.
I think she's absolutely right.
I think the work she is bringing
to the world and the message
she has is spot on, and I
would love for more people
to read her work and understand
what her experiences really
entailed.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich,
what's a portal?
>>OLSEN: A portal is an
opening between two worlds.
It is where we can sit
in between the physical
and the spiritual
world, and it enables
spirits to move back and
forth between the worlds.
A good example of how I
use portal-type working
is in doing seances.
Quite often, a spirit will
come through that's stuck.
They're stuck on this
side of the world.
They haven't quite crossed
over into the spirit world,
and they need a little
help to cross over.
So I'll tell them to look
over their left shoulder,
and they'll see a light there.
And in that light are
people that they know,
they remember, that love them,
that can take care of them.
Now, by doing that, it's
sparking their memory.
It's sparking their emotion.
It tunes their frequency
in to their loved ones,
to their memories.
And that is what's
opening up that portal.
It's creating this connection
to their loved ones
that are on the other
side that are like, hey,
it's time to come home.
Come here.
And once they cross over--
it's interesting-- you
can feel the room shift.
It's like somebody slams a door,
but you can't hear a door slam.
You can just feel the air
pressure just kind of bounce.
>>NOORY: You know
something's happening.
>>OLSEN: You know
>>NOORY: How do people
tell if their house has
a portal somewhere?
>>OLSEN: That's a
very good question.
The first thing to
look at-- is there
paranormal phenomena going on?
And lights flickering could be.
Get an electrician.
Check it out.
Cold spots in the room--
is it the air conditioning?
Is it drafts?
Get these things checked out.
If doors are moving
on their own--
>>NOORY: That's good.
>>OLSEN: --again, always
remove the mundane first.
But if it happens
over and over, and you
get these things
checked out, you
start seeing things,
shift your energy state.
Move to a higher state.
Connect with what your
sense of the sacred
is, your sense of peace
and calm because you're
going to start generating that.
If you feel fear, have a laugh.
Seriously, if you feel
something fearful, laugh at it
because that will shift the
energy of that moment that,
if there's a negative entity,
it'll start moving away.
But then if you start seeing
it over, and over, and over,
you're going to want to be
in that higher state of mind
because of similarities
attracting and perpetuating.
The other rule is
you are in charge
of the energetic
environment around you.
So if you have a portal or
are suspecting a portal,
work on your inner work.
Shift your emotions
to a higher state.
Move out of fear.
Move out of anger.
Try not to be so
upset about things.
Move to a higher state
of mind more often.
Do your meditation
work, your connections
to higher-being work.
And that will shift the
energy of that portal
to be a more
positive connection.
>>NOORY: I was going to
say, can portals be good?
>>OLSEN: They're mostly good.
The way that they
fall to bad is us.
If we see a paranormal
phenomena going on-- again,
people are going to default
to what they see in the movies
because that's their
only experience with it,
and they're like, uh-oh,
this is demonic activity.
They're in a fear state.
They're in a lot of
anxiety, nervousness.
They don't understand
what's going on.
That's going to shift the
energy and start generating
the negative stuff around them.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich, what's the
story behind "The Changeling."
>>OLSEN: "The Changeling" is
a movie that came out in 1980
starring George C. Scott--
scared the heck out of me.
>>NOORY: "Patton."
>>OLSEN: Yes.
It was about a composer moving
from New York City to Seattle.
And when he moved
into this house,
paranormal phenomena
started happening--
a ball rolling across the floor,
something trying to push him
down the stairs, being chased
around by a wheelchair--
only for him to find out that
it's a spirit of a little boy
that's angry and upset because
it was murdered by his father
and then replaced--
>>NOORY: In that house?
>>OLSEN: In that house--
and then replaced.
But it's based on a true story
here in Denver, Colorado.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>OLSEN: Mm-hmm.
In Denver, Colorado-- of
course, the author's name
is escaping me right
now, but that's OK.
It was about an author
who moved into a house.
Paranormal stuff
started happening.
And it's really an amalgam,
from my understanding,
of the story of
Dr. Robert Bradley.
Dr. Robert Bradley is--
>>NOORY: Real guy?
>>OLSEN: Real guy.
He is the inventor of the
Bradley method of childbirth.
Happened to be my
mom's obstetrician
when she was pregnant with me.
And he was one of the
consultants on "The Changeling"
because he, too, lived in
a house down in Denver.
And his story is coming down
to his parlor late at night.
He went to go pick
up his cigar case,
and it kind of flew
out of his hands,
lifted up, and fell
back on the table.
He went into the scary state.
He went into the, "Oh, my God.
What are you going to
do to me" kind of thing.
>>NOORY: You panic.
>>OLSEN: And all sorts
of bad things happened.
He has a scar--
had a scar on his neck.
He's passed now.
He's in the other world.
He had a scar on his neck
where a mirror broke the--
>>NOORY: And cut him?
>>OLSEN: Cut him.
Lights flickering-- there was a
200-pound chandelier that would
bob up and down and
sway around in their--
>>NOORY: How do
you explain this?
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
A lot of stuff was going on.
And how I explain this is
it was a compound haunting.
Now, what I call a
compound haunting means,
first, there's something
really going on.
There's really a
spirit in the house.
Then, when you have the
paranormal phenomena,
you go into that fear
state, and you are creating
what's called a thought form.
And a thought form
is just a little ball
of energy programmed
with "scare me."
Scare the heck out of me.
And that's what it did.
It would be there, and it would
pump him with fear energy,
so he would generate
fear energy.
And that's how the
thought form exists.
Now, if we're not able
to express our emotions,
again, if we're not
able to let them out,
we generate what's called
the poltergeist effect.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>OLSEN: That is where we start
using our telekinetic ability
to throw things around the
house, to move chandeliers,
to flick lights on and
off, to make the really
scary, spooky stuff happen.
>>NOORY: So we're
making that happen?
>>OLSEN: That's
exactly my experience.
We're the ones generating it.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>OLSEN: And this is what
Dr. Bradley discovered is--
he eventually had
to go with seances.
He had to bring in a medium to
figure out what was going on.
>>NOORY: Did they?
>>OLSEN: Yep.
And they found out that
it was a little boy
living in that house.
>>NOORY: The one who died?
>>OLSEN: Yep, the one who died.
And the story of the little
boy was it had a clubfoot.
And the servants were
carrying it out one day
to go bring it to the horse and
carriage-- back in those days,
back that far away and
the servants accidentally
dropped the boy.
The horse and carriage ran
over the boy, and the boy died.
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh.
The horror.
>>OLSEN: And the
parents couldn't
handle the
embarrassment of it all,
so they very quietly
adopted another boy.
>>NOORY: And tried
to replace the kid.
>>OLSEN: Tried to replace it.
Meanwhile, this little child is
walking around the house going,
what?
Where is everybody?
>> NOORY: Where am I?
Where am I?
>>OLSEN: And he had a favorite
little ball, this boy,
and the boy would occasionally
roll the ball around the house
because that's what boys do.
>>NOORY: In those days.
>>OLSEN: Yep.
But, now, when the people
living in the house see it,
they're going to this
ghost stories mode.
They're going to, oh, my God.
There's a demon in the house.
What are you going to do to me?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>OLSEN: When the
doctor realized this--
and he's a doctor.
He's an obstetrician.
He loves kids.
He loves babies, right?
He realized there was
a frightened little boy
in the house, and
he went through what
I call the compassion shift.
>>NOORY: The spirit of
a frightened little boy.
>>OLSEN: The spirit of
a frightened little boy
in the house.
And this is what I call
the compassion shift,
where you move
from, "Oh, my God,
what are you going
to do to me" to "Oh,
is there a way I can help you?"
Once he did that, the
bad stuff stopped--
completely stopped.
He was now living in
a very beautiful way
with a little boy in the house.
The doctor would have two
seances a month in there.
And all of the scary
stuff completely
stopped because he shifted
his internal energy,
his internal emotions, which
changed the energy around him.
And the scared little
boy was just fine.
>>NOORY: And that's where
the compassion comes in.
>>OLSEN: That's exactly where
And that's the kind of thing
I teach people all the time.
If there's bad stuff
going on in the house,
if you're experiencing
the poltergeist effect,
things are flying
around, and you're
having a really negative
experience with your house,
it's real.
It's really happening.
I'm not going to discount that.
It's true.
But instead of
going, oh, my God,
what are you going to do to me?
Go to, oh, is there
somebody that needs help?
Now, people might
initially say, OK,
you do that, you're going to
open yourself up to attack
because you're now open.
No.
If there is something
negative, and you
are bringing a compassionate,
loving energy into that,
this negative thing is
not going to like that.
It's going to feel
that, and it's
going to be like, oh,
I'm out of here, which
means you got to double down.
You just keep putting out
that compassion energy.
How can I help you?
How can I serve?
Is there some help
that you need?
How can I help you?
And if there really is
a spirit in the house,
it'll tune in to you.
It'll tap in.
And you get that little
message of like, hey, yeah,
can you do this for me?
And you resolve that, and you
help that spirit cross over--
gone.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Andrea Perron talks about
her sister visiting the house
decades later and the things
that they went through.
>>PERRON: The light
spirits didn't
want us to interact
with the dark spirits,
nor did they want the darker
entities to haunt or taunt us
in the house.
And, in fact, my
sisters, Nancy and Cindy,
went back to the house.
We left in 1980.
And in 1996, they
went back to the house
to visit who was the
current owner at the time.
And she invited
them into the house.
And both of them had their faces
touched and their hair stroked,
and they both felt that
she was holding back
something that was much darker.
And, simultaneously, they
both heard, oh, my God.
It's you.
You're back.
Now, there's no explaining that.
There's no explaining it.
But both of them
said that they felt
protected in those moments.
And my sister Cindy has always
said that the spirits couldn't
come with us because
the good ones loved us,
and they would have
come if they could.
She felt that they
were trapped there.
She, to this day, feels
that they are trapped there.
And there's no explaining this.
We might not ever
have the answers
to exactly who they were.
To me, it doesn't matter
who they were in life.
That they still
are in afterlife--
that's all that matters to me.
That's the miracle.
That's the magic of that
place, magic being science
that we don't yet understand.
>>NOORY: She got
very emotional there.
What did you think of that?
>>OLSEN: Yep, absolutely.
And she's right.
The vast, vast majority of the
spirits in the spirit world
are very kind, very
benevolent, very protective.
There might be some
wonky things out there
that we need to watch out
and be careful of-- people
who have been misguided.
People are people, right?
In lifetime, sometimes
we're not so good of people.
You cross over.
You still might not be so good.
So there's some work to be done.
And then there are such things
as egregores, which are still--
>>NOORY: What are they?
>>OLSEN: These are
human-generated spirits
by our belief.
So if we were to talk about an
abandoned insane asylum, about
all the horrors that went on
there, about the spirits that
are there, about the
negative experiences,
our collective belief will
create what I call a big nasty.
It's an egregore-- a
collectively-created entity
that is one of those big
nasty scary things that
live in there that thrive off
of our belief, that thrive off
of our fear and will do
the things to support
that and promote that.
And so we will find some
of these negative things
out there, and it will seem
like those spirits are trapped
in those places
because they're feeding
that egregore what it needs.
But, ultimately, we're the ones
feeding it through our belief.
>>NOORY: See, I don't think
the movies intentionally
try to deceive people
from the truth.
They're not documentaries.
>>OLSEN: Correct.
>>NOORY: They're movies.
They're entertainment.
They're there to get people
to watch you and come and sell
your millions of dollars'
worth of movie tickets.
>>OLSEN: I absolutely
agree with you.
They're fun.
And if we remember that they
are entertainment and completely
fiction, correct.
That's absolutely true.
The only problem
that I have is when
people start taking that
this is reality because they
don't have anything else.
>>NOORY: Well, how
many people do that?
A lot.
>>OLSEN: A lot, because they
don't know the difference.
And that's one of the things
I'll relate back to the Perron
family is imagine
they were trained
to coexist with the paranormal.
Imagine that, when they
went into that house,
they were taught that
the supernatural is
a completely natural part
of our world and that--
>>NOORY: Live with it.
>>OLSEN: --we cocreate,
and we can live with it.
We can interact with
it and experiencing it.
I'm betting all of
their experiences
would have been so much better,
if people like the Warrens
didn't assume
everything were demons,
that they're going
into people's houses
and teaching them how to
coexist with this energy,
how to share this
space with these beings
because we are spiritual and
physical beings ourselves.
We are the other half of this
equation of the natural world,
so we can coexist.
So imagine if people are
taught that, instead.
We could still watch these scary
movies and have a great time.
But then we go home and hang out
with the spirits in the house
and say, hey, how are
you doing, Charlie?
Having a great day.
Hope you are, too.
>>NOORY: I would
guess, Kaedrich,
if I were an executive
doing a movie,
I would do it the exact same
way they're doing it today.
And that is make it
exciting, and interesting,
and fascinating.
>>OLSEN: I agree.
I just want more out
there in addition
to the movies to help
people realize the beauty
and wonder of the paranormal.
>>NOORY: Well, you're
talking documentaries, then.
But how many people will
watch a documentary compared
to an entertaining movie?
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
That's why I love the work
we're doing here, George.
I love the questions
you're asking,
and I love that your audience
is here learning these things
and being exposed to
this other side of things
because we're opening
minds, and we're
helping raise people's
spiritual beings
to a higher state of being
to realize it isn't so scary.
>>NOORY: It's real.
>>OLSEN: It's real, and we're
helping people to see that.
>>NOORY: What has ever
scared you in your life?
>>OLSEN: People.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>OLSEN: People scare
me-- turning on the news
and seeing what's
going on in the world.
>>NOORY: That's horrible.
>>OLSEN: That's horrible.
That's really scary stuff.
But in the supernatural--
since when I was a kid, yes.
I had a hard time going
to sleep because there
were spirits in the house.
And I was really mostly
exposed to the movies,
so I had a hard time
going to sleep as a kid.
"The Exorcist" scared
the heck out of me.
But, over the years, as I worked
with my whisperers, my guides,
my teachers, and I learned how
to interact with those energies
and the spirits, it's gone.
>>NOORY: Did you ever let
your arm rest over the bed?
That scared me.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I always thought there
was something underneath it.
And I don't like clowns, either.
>>OLSEN: Clowns are spooky.
Clowns are spooky.
>>NOORY: What movies do
you think get it right?
>>OLSEN: There are some.
There are some that
actually get it right.
"The Others" is one
of them that I think
gets it right, the
Nicole Kidman movie.
And then there's the
Robin Williams movie--
>>NOORY: I love that movie.
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah,
it was a great movie.
The Robin Williams movie
"What Dreams May Come"--
that's another one I
think gets things right.
>>NOORY: The Robin
Williams "What
Dreams May Come" was a classic.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
"What Dreams May Come"--
based on the work of
Emanuel Swedenborg, who
was taken out of his body
by his guides, his teachers,
the angelic beings and
shown different places
on the other side, the other
world, the spirit world,
so that he could see the
good, the bad, the ugly,
the wonderful, the fact that
the humans themselves, us,
we create our own afterlife.
And that was what was
reflected in this movie.
When the doctor, played
by Robin Williams, died,
he literally went into a painted
landscape of his own creation.
And when he was able
to finally adapt,
when he was able to finally
get out of this blurry phase
and adapt to the
afterlife, he went
into more of a
communal space where
there's shared creativity, where
people can kind of collaborate
together.
But there were still
those dark places.
There were still those
places where people--
where they feel that they
needed maybe some negativity
to themselves.
>>NOORY: And, in real life,
he ended up in a dark place.
>>OLSEN: Robin Williams?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, unfortunately.
>>NOORY: Took his own life.
>>OLSEN: His whole life.
>>NOORY: It's a
whole, sad story.
>>OLSEN: It is a
really sad story.
He's a beautiful man,
did some beautiful work.
And it's just unfortunate
the internal pain
he was going through.
>>NOORY: I'll always
remember that scene
in "What Dreams
May Come" where he
was stepping on the heads
of people in heaven or hell,
wherever they were--
remember that one?
>>OLSEN: Yep.
>>NOORY: --squashing them.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And that's one of those
things that we kind of find.
My own guides took me
on different journeys
to the afterlife, to the
other world to show me things.
They once showed me a
place very similar to that.
It's not the same thing
but a very similar.
It was a bunch of people
standing around with their eyes
just glazed over.
They're just like
staring off into space.
And there was, like,
a whole field of them.
And I said, what's
going on here?
What am I seeing?
And they told me, this is hell.
And I'm like, what do
you mean this is hell?
Each and every one
of these people
here believed that they
were a bad person in life
and that they have to atone
for something through some sort
of personal torment, so they
are living through that torment
in their own, inner world.
And I'm like, how do
they get out of this?
Can they?
And I was told, yes.
Look carefully.
There are other people standing
around them whispering to them.
So when they wake up a
little bit, and they go,
do I really have to be here?
A whisperer will be like, no.
What do you think is
out there different?
>>NOORY: I love that.
>>OLSEN: And then they'll sink
back into their dark torment
till they come back
out a little bit.
And they're like, well,
how do I get out of here?
Well, think about
something wonderful.
Think about something good.
And then maybe they will, and
then they'll come out of it.
So the dead are not
eternally tormented.
It is just their own, personal
thing that they go through.
And once they realize
with their own, free will
they don't have
to be there, they
can use their own, free
will to get out of it.
And there are whisperers there
to help them get out of it.
>>NOORY: Kaedrich, what do you
recommend people do if they
think their house is haunted?
>>OLSEN: Have fun with it.
The reason why I'm saying have
fun with it-- laugh at it.
Have a sense of awe and wonder.
When I teach--
>>NOORY: Until it
throws a knife at you.
>>OLSEN: Even if it
does throw a knife.
This is what I
tell ghost hunters,
paranormal investigators because
I'll train them to keep safe.
I tell them that if you see
something fly across the room
or you see like that
black mist forming
in the middle of the room,
have a moment to go, wow,
that's really amazing.
You can do that?
Do it again.
Or if it's something making you
feel fearful or uncomfortable,
unease, have a laugh.
Laugh at it because,
remember, similarities
attract and perpetuate.
If this thing is
trying to scare you,
if it's trying to put you into
a negative emotional state,
you're going to be generating
the energy that will
support its behaving that way.
>>NOORY: You can feed it.
>>OLSEN: Yeah,
you're feeding it.
But if you can have awe and
wonder, you can have laughter,
you can play with it,
you have fun with it,
it'll push the
negative stuff away.
And if it really is
grandma coming to say hi,
if it really is a little
kid playing in the house,
then you're going to generate
this positive, powerful,
wonderful energy that they're
going to connect with you.
And you're going to
realize, oh, hi, grandma.
It's been a long time.
How have you been?
That was you messing
with a book on the shelf?
And you're like, what book
is that you're messing with?
And you pull it off the
shelf, and you go, oh, yeah, I
remember when we read that.
Now, you can connect with
her, instead of going,
what's that moving the book?
Why?
>>NOORY: Kaedrich, thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>OLSEN: Thank you.
I enjoyed this, George.
>>NOORY: Got to
get you back again.
There's way too much
material to cover with you.
>>OLSEN: Indeed.
I look forward to that.
>>NOORY: We will
do that, indeed.
So if you think your
house is haunted,
you want to deal with
someone like Kaedrich Olsen
and get him to
come and help you.
But as he said, laugh at it.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]